Hello everybody and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to learn about the render border as you can see here it doesn't matter how
powerful your system is.
Well let's face it we're focused on the lamp itself would it be better if we just had a small area of
the scene rendering rather than the whole stuff.
How do we focus on that focal points.
And what are the pitfalls and other things that you may come across when playing with it.
Let's find out more.
OK.
So this is where we left off before as you can see this whole scene is rendering and it takes a few
moments to be done.
Now it's quite quick for my computer.
So what's I'm going to do is I'm going to go into the viewport settings under the renderer under sampling
and change that to something a bit higher so we can see the difference that this really makes some of
the sets it's something really high 300.
I must remember to set it back and you can see here it's chartering up and the scene should be getting
better and better and better as it continues to render.
But the moment you move it it restarts rendering so you may need a high sample count for whatever reason.
There are several that we could use as an example.
One is just difficulty with volume metrics it need.
They need a lot of samples to look good or it might be that you're focused on detail if you are focused
on detail then why render the whole scene if you just focused on one area.
So it's very very simple to operate control and B will turn on a selection tool in which case we could
draw around our lamp.
Now watch how much quicker it's rendering that significantly faster than the whole scene.
To turn it off it's just control ult and B and it will set it back again and we can see the speed difference
in real time.
I press the end key to bring up the properties panel.
We have a couple of options here.
And under the view tab if you press control and B and draw around our lamp again we can see that we've
turned on round the region and if we turn it off again we can do so here.
And if we clear the region with control ultimately it means there is no longer a region to select.
So if you want to toggle it on and off and you're looking from a particular region then you can just
toggle it on and off here.
Now if we look through the angle of the camera you'll notice that it reverts back again.
Okay.
And this border is relative to the viewport.
So if I move elsewhere it won't track our lamp.
It won't track the subject that if we go over to the camera view you can see that the camera renders
everything you can see in the viewport as well.
But what we can do here is go control and be and set it up to match the camera.
Now if we do that is not rendering the rest of the scene and it's saving us a ton of time rendering
but it's also individually separate from the viewport rendering.
That's really really useful it means that you can set this up so that you can just move the camera around
and it's only rendering what's within the camera view now there is a gotcha here.
Sometimes people clear their selection control alt and be all they miss press and perhaps not hold down
the control key or by accident they use the old key when they do in the border select because look I'll
just press Ultima B and I get a similar selection.
Let's just draw around here.
Well what's that done.
That seems to have taken a slice of some.
Oh.
What's going on here.
Well if you go back to the oh my what's this is just slice through.
So this is the clipping border that I see so many people inadvertently turn on when they're think they're
turning around the render border.
This is very easy to turn off if you ever have your seen looking like you've taken a slice through it
from a particular angle which is what we've done here and can be very confusing.
If you're new to blender you can just press Alton B again and it will come back if you press Alton B
it will give you this box that you can draw around which is useful for cussing cross sections in your
models but not so useful if you meant to do the render border so let's go.
Alton being clear that down control and B render border and you can see that it will stay in that position
in the viewport and then we can turn on rendering and actually have it match up.
Now this is a cycle specific thing if we turn on eevee then it doesn't really mean that much anyway
so let's turn it back to cycles.
That's our camera in frame.
I'm just going to save the settings and changes I've made there.
We can see that counting up to 300 is done incredibly quickly.
So the final thing here of course is to knock the viewport back down to our low counts and the sets
up as 8 for the moment and you'll see with that renderings done so quickly I don't even have time to
count up.
So this is one of the great things I cannot see it render there.
If I turn the render region off so I'm not clearing it.
Once it's done in about two seconds maybe and it's done in less than a second there.
So there's a great big difference when it comes to rendering your scene where the render border and
those who have a slower computer.
This will be a really really useful tool for you to use to make sure that you're not waiting absolutely
ages for something to render out.
That's it for this lecture.
I hope this helps out everybody.
Not only those with lower powered computers but those with more powerful ones that didn't realize that
this even existed.
And I'll see you all in the next lecture.